---
title: "Course Syllabus"
date: 2023-08-31
---

General Information
======================================================================================

Course Name
: - [*CS110*: Computation, programs and programming](https://registrar.corpuschristi.ca/my/classes/2319/)

Term/Year:
: - 2023W T1 (Sep-Dec 2023)

Class Schedule 
: - Lecture: Friday 9-11:50am
  - Lab: Friday 1:30-2:30pm

Instructor:
: - Geoffrey Woollard

Contact Information:
: - <gwoollard@corpuschristi.ca>

Office Hours:
: - TBA

Calendar Description
======================================================================================
This course offers fundamental program and computation structures. The course takes you through introductory programming skills exploring computation as a tool for information processing, simulation and modeling, and interacting with the world.

Course Description
======================================================================================
An introduction to computer programming made for students with very little or no programming knowledge. The fundamental concepts and terminology of computing science will be taught so that the students can acquire elementary skills for programming in Python. This knowledge can be applied in diverse fields and applications of computing science.

Course Pre-requisite(s):
: - Grade 12 Math

Learning Outcomes
======================================================================================
* Describe fundamental concepts pertaining to computing science:
  * Computer science
  * Problem solving
  * Algorithms
  * Decomposition
  * Abstraction
  * Computer program
  * Programming language
  * History of computers/computation

Required Texts & Resources
======================================================================================
Textbooks:
: - *_TP_*: Elkner et al., [_Think Python - How to Think Like a Computer Scientist, 2nd Edition_](https://runestone.academy/runestone/books/published/thinkcspy/index.html)
  - *_PS_*: Miller et al., [_Problem Solving with Algorithms and Data Structures using Python_](https://runestone.academy/runestone/books/published/pythonds/index.html)

Hardware: 
: - (Recommended) A personal laptop running a modern web browser.

Course Requirements:
======================================================================================
No prior programming experience is required. Basic computer literacy is expected including keyboarding skills, file management and use of a web browser.

Grade Distribution:
======================================================================================


    Component                |  Percentage
   --------------------------|-------------------
    Quizzes                  | 10%
    Labs                     | 20%
    Assignments              | 20%
    Exam 1                   | 20%
    Exam 2 (final)           | 20%
    In-class participation   | 10%

    Component                     |  Percentage
   -------------------------------|-------------------
    *Individual* Projects 0, 1, 5 | 18%
    *Pair* Projects 2, 3, 6       | 18%
    *Team* Projects 4, 7          | 18%
    Exam 1                        | 18%
    Exam 2                        | 18%
    Engagement                    | 10%

Course Policies:
======================================================================================
It is the responsibility of every student to read and understand the College Policies. The College Policies on Academic Honesty, Academic Standing, Academic Concession, Final Exam , Grading Practices, Student Conduct, Technology Usage, and more can be found here: [http://corpuschristi.ca/about-us/academic-policies](https://corpuschristi.ca/current-students/#Policies)

Attendance / Participation:
======================================================================================
As per the college Final Exam policy, students who miss more than 25% of course lectures may be barred from writing the final exam.

Accomodations:
======================================================================================
Students with documented disabilities who may require accommodations must contact the UBC Centre for Accessibility (https://students.ubc.ca/about-student-services/centre-for-accessibility) as soon as possible.

Assignments:
======================================================================================
To satisfy the requirements of this course, students will carry out weekly programming assignments and in-person lab assignments.

Late/Missing Submissions:
======================================================================================
: - A late assignment will be deducted 10% for every day the assignment is late. For instance, an assignment that is 2 days late and graded out of 100 points will be awarded a maximum of 80 points.
  - The lowest assignment and quiz will be dropped.

Extensions:
======================================================================================
As a general rule, extensions will almost never be granted. Instead, the lowest assignment and quiz will be dropped. Extensions on course work will only be granted due to illness or similar **extraordinary** circumstances. In such a case, a note signed by a physician stating the date and time of the visit to the doctor’s office may be required. Any late work cannot be accepted three weeks after the end of term for any reason.

Missed Tests:
======================================================================================
Only medical reasons justify make-up exams. In the case of the final exam, as per existing policy, the student must get in touch with the instructor within 48 hours of the missed final.

Grading Scale:
======================================================================================



<!-- Markdeep: --><style class="fallback">body{visibility:hidden;white-space:pre;font-family:monospace}</style><script src="markdeep.min.js" charset="utf-8"></script><script src="https://morgan3d.github.io/markdeep/latest/markdeep.min.js" charset="utf-8"></script><script>window.alreadyProcessedMarkdeep||(document.body.style.visibility="visible")</script>
